# imput_cov()

This function performs imputations on incomplete covariates, whatever
their types, using functions from the package MICE (Van Buuren's
Multiple Imputation) or functions from the package missMDA (Simple
Imputation with Multivariate data analysis).

## Usage

``` r
imput_cov(
  dat1,
  indcol = 1:ncol(dat1),
  R_mice = 5,
  meth = rep("pmm", ncol(dat1)),
  missMDA = FALSE,
  NB_COMP = 3,
  seed_choice = sample(1:1e+06, 1)
)
```

## Arguments

- dat1:

  a data.frame containing the variables to be imputed and those involved
  in the imputations

- indcol:

  a vector of integers. The corresponding column indexes (or numbers)
  corresponding to the variables to be imputed and those involved in the
  imputations.

- R_mice:

  an integer. The number of imputed database generated with MICE method
  (5 by default).

- meth:

  a vector of characters which specifies the imputation method to be
  used for each column in `dat1`. "pmm" for continuous covariates or by
  default option, "logreg" for binary covariates, "polr" for ordinal
  covariates, "polyreg" for categorical covariates (no order), (cf
  [`mice`](https://amices.org/mice/reference/mice.html) for more
  details).

- missMDA:

  a boolean. If `TRUE`, missing values are imputed using the factoral
  analysis for mixed data
  ([`imputeFAMD`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/missMDA/man/imputeFAMD.html)) from
  the missMDA package (2).

- NB_COMP:

  an integer corresponding to the number of components used in FAMD to
  predict the missing entries (3 by default) when the `missMDA` option
  is TRUE.

- seed_choice:

  an integer used as argument by the set.seed() for offsetting the
  random number generator (Random integer by default)

## Value

A list of 3 or 4 objects (depending on the missMDA argument). The first
three following objects if `missMDA` = TRUE, otherwise 4 objects are
returned:

- RAW:

  a data.frame corresponding to the raw database

- IMPUTE:

  a character indicating the type of selected imputation

- DATA_IMPUTE:

  a data.frame corresponding to the completed (consensus if multiple
  imputations) database

- MICE_IMPS:

  only if missMDA = FALSE. A list object containing the R imputed
  databases generated by MICE

## Details

By default, the function `impute_cov` handles missing information using
multivariate imputation by chained equations (MICE, see (1) for more
details about the method) by integrating in its syntax the function
[`mice`](https://amices.org/mice/reference/mice.html). All values of
this last function are taken by default, excepted the required number of
multiple imputations, which can be fixed by using the argument `R_mice`,
and the chosen imputation method for each variable (`meth` argument),
that corresponds to the argument `defaultMethod` of the function
[`mice`](https://amices.org/mice/reference/mice.html). When multiple
imputations are required (for MICE only), each missing information is
imputed by a consensus value: the average of the candidate values will
be retained for numerical variables, while the most frequent class will
be remained for categorical variables (ordinal or not). The output
`MICE_IMPS` stores the imputed databases to allow users to build their
own consensus values by themselves and(or) to eventually assess the
variabilities related to the proposed imputed values if necessary. For
this method, a random number generator must be fixed or sampled using
the argument `seed_choice`.

When the argument `missMDA` is equalled to `TRUE`, incomplete values are
replaced (single imputation) using a method based on dimensionality
reduction called factor analysis for mixed data (FAMD) using the the
[`imputeFAMD`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/missMDA/man/imputeFAMD.html) function
of the missMDA package (2). Using this approach, the function
`imput_cov` keeps all the default values integrated in the function
`imputeFAMD` excepted the number of dimensions used for FAMD which can
be fixed by users (3 by default).

## References

1.  van Buuren, S., Groothuis-Oudshoorn, K. (2011). mice: Multivariate
    Imputation by Chained Equations in R. Journal of Statistical
    Software, 45(3), 1–67. urlhttps://www.jstatsoft.org/v45/i03/

2.  Josse J, Husson F (2016). missMDA: A Package for Handling Missing
    Values in Multivariate Data Analysis. Journal of Statistical
    Software, 70(1), 1–31.
    [doi:10.18637/jss.v070.i01](https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v070.i01)

## Author

Gregory Guernec

<otrecod.pkg@gmail.com>

## Examples

``` r
# Imputation of all incomplete covariates in the table simu_data:
data(simu_data)

# Here we keep the complete variable "Gender" in the imputation model.
# Using MICE (REP = 3):
imput_mice <- imput_cov(simu_data,
  indcol = 4:8, R_mice = 3,
  meth = c("logreg", "polyreg", "polr", "logreg", "pmm")
)
summary(imput_mice)
#>             Length Class      Mode     
#> RAW         8      data.frame list     
#> IMPUTE      1      -none-     character
#> DATA_IMPUTE 5      data.frame list     
#> MICE_IMPS   3      mild       list     


# Using FAMD (NB_COMP = 3):
imput_famd <- imput_cov(simu_data,
  indcol = 4:8,
  meth = c("logreg", "polyreg", "polr", "logreg", "pmm"),
  missMDA = TRUE
)
summary(imput_famd)
#>             Length Class      Mode     
#> RAW         8      data.frame list     
#> IMPUTE      1      -none-     character
#> DATA_IMPUTE 5      data.frame list     
```
